[door closing]
[theme music playing]
[man sighs]
-[door opening]
-[keys jangling]
[man] Time.
[door buzzes]
[clerk] All rise.
[clerk] Will
the foreman stand, please?
Have you reached a verdict
on which at least
ten of you agree?
-[foreman] No.
-[judge] Do you think
if I gave you any more time,
you would be able
to reach a verdict on which
at least ten of you agreed?
-No. I'm sorry.
-[indistinct chattering]
In which case, I'm obliged
to call the trial to a halt
and discharge you, the jury.
And having consulted with
the prosecution in anticipation
of such an outcome,
it is my duty
to tell you, Mr. Collins,
the prosecution intend
to offer no further evidence.
And as such,
given this was the third trial
for the same offence,
you are now formally acquitted
of all charges
and are free to leave.
[indistinct chattering]
[judge]
Court will now adjourn.
You killed my sister,
you bastard! You murdered
my sister! [whimpering]
[woman crying]
[man]
How you feeling, Alice?
What about your brother-in-law,
Mrs. Moffatt?
[woman] Do you still think
he did it, Alice?
-Do you still think he did it?
-[man] Can we go, please,
driver?
[indistinct chattering]
[woman] DCI Beech,
what is your reaction
to Mr. Collins' release?
My thoughts right now are
with Tara Collins' family,
-her mum, her dad, her sister.
-Do you have any new leads?
We'll be reviewing
all the evidence we have.
Excuse me.
Are there any other suspects?
Will, are you looking
for anyone else?
No, we're not looking
for anyone else.
[clamouring]
[sighs]
Okay, I'm going to get our car
to come round the back.
It's insane out there.
Come on.
David?
No. No.
-Dave. Dave!
-[door opens]
[clamouring]
[woman]
What would you like to say
to your sister-in-law, David?
[man] What would you like
to say to Tara's family?
[man 2] Will you
be suing Mrs. Moffatt?
Have you spoken
to your children?
Seven years ago,
I was sent to prison for
something that I did not do.
For, uh, a terrible crime
that I did not commit.
Overnight, I lost my wife,
I lost my liberty,
and most importantly,
I lost my kids.
Why?
Because of the Forensic Science
Service's criminal negligence
and because
of a police investigation
that bent
every bit of evidence
to fit a theory
that was clearly wrong.
And more important than that,
much worse...
was that ordinary people lied.
They lied
for their own ends.
And if they
are watching this now,
then I want them to know
that I will expose them.
I will expose them for what
they have put me through.
I've had seven years
of my life stolen,
and now I want justice.
I want my wife's
real killer found.
I want those that lied
brought to book.
And I want my children back.
-[man] Thank you, David.
-[woman] Where will you live,
Mr. Collins?
Mr. Collins would like
to get home. Thank you.
No more questions.
Excuse me. Thank you.
Excuse me.
No more questions.
[theme music playing]
[birds chirping]
[man] We should have been honest
with the children.
We should have told them
this was a possibility.
What would we have said, Rob?
Just what?
[birds chirping]
-[indistinct chattering]
-[telephone ringing]
It's not just a question
of having an open mind,
DCI Beech.
We have to be seen
to have one.
It was a stupid thing
to say, obviously.
It's just that we all know
he was released
on a technicality, so...
I've never worked
on a case that explored
more possibilities, sir.
-There was no one else.
It was him.
-Well, I hope so.
The public hardly need
another reason
to distrust us, do they?
Which is why I know
you'll understand my need now
for a fresher pair of eyes.
[telephone ringing]
DI Hudson.
Yes, sir.
-No. No, no, no. [sobs]
-It's all right, darling.
[girl] Why, Mum? Why?
[sobs]
[news reporter]
In March 2015, the Forensic
Science Service laboratory,
which handled
the original evidence,
was found to have routinely
broken standard
storage protocols,
making it impossible
for the court to discount
cross-contamination
that took place.
With this, the third
such collapsed trial...
-Louise.
-[Louise]  So I presume
you've seen the news.
[TV]
...government ministers...
[Louise] Why don't you come
over later, see the kids?
-We can have a chat.
-[sighs]
So I want you to pick a team
completely unconnected
to the original investigation,
and then I want you
to start again,
to investigate this case
as if she were killed yesterday.
You think you can do that?
Yes, sir. Why not?
Oh, there are about 50 reasons
why not walking the corridors
of this station alone,
DI Hudson.
But we need to send a message
out that despite DCI Beech's
remarks this morning,
we take the court's decision
very seriously, indeed.
-Yes, sir, of course.
-Good.
And keep me up to speed
on any new developments.
I got the home office
breathing down my neck.
[girl] What about
the other evidence?
[Rob] Well, in the end,
the jury must have decided
that the other stuff
was just too circumstantial.
-What's circumstantial?
-Well, it means that, uh,
it was helpful
for the original case,
but not, on its own,
enough to prove guilt.
-But her blood was on his coat.
-It was.
But the jury believed it might
have got there by accident,
at the forensic laboratory.
But what about
all the other stuff he did
to her, hitting her,
-and the threats he made to you?
-Again, darling,
it doesn't prove
that he murdered anybody.
What was he talking about
when he said people had lied?
Well, if he wants people
to believe him,
he's going to have to say
we all lied, isn't he?
Did you?
Of course not, Jack.
So you still think he did it?
Well, you know...
in the end, you know,
I think it's probably best
not to dwell on our own
opinions, I think.
The truth is,
we'll probably never know
one way or the other.
-This is all fucked up.
-Jack, Jack,
I know this must be--
Just leave him, love.
Just let him have
some time on his own.
[Rosie] What's to stop him
just taking us back?
Lots, Rosie,
there is lots to stop him.
I bet he's gone to live
with Uncle Phil.
-It's only 15 minutes away.
-No, no, no.
-He could come and take us...
-That's not going to happen.
...when we're outside school.
-It's okay. It's okay.
-And he killed our mum
and he could kill us.
-[Rosie crying]
-[gasps]
[sombre music playing]
I'm so sorry.
[Phil] Here we go.
How long you been here?
Uh, 'bout six months.
Well, the old place was
too big, really,
and, um, well, your case
took up a fair amount of time.
Both gave me the excuse
to chuck in my shite job,
and, uh, well, to take one
that I actually enjoy.
For which, my dear brother,
I am eternally grateful.
[waves crashing]
Sorry, um, [stammers]
I didn't know
how today was gonna go.
Obviously, I'll clear
all this out now.
-Phil.
-Shut up.
I don't know how I'm ever gonna
be able to thank you.
You would have done
the same for me.
Nah, I bloody wouldn't have.
[laughs]
[scoffs]
Right. [clears throat]
Yeah, [stammers]
I'm gonna stick the kettle on.
There's a few boxes of stuff
from your old house there,
I managed to get it in
before Alice took everything.
-Are they still
just outside Halesham?
-Yeah.
I drive over
every now and then just...
just to see the kids.
See-- See them?
Have you... Have you
spoken to them, Phil?
No, no, from a distance.
I've taken a few photos
over the years.
They're in there too.
In here?
Milk and sugar?
[indistinct chattering]
-Hey.
-Hi.
Listen, I had no idea
he was gonna give me the case.
-I know.
-And obviously, I've got
no choice about whether--
-I had to say yes.
-Hey, it's all right,
it's all right.
-[sighs]
-I'm pleased for you.
Of course I am.
And I'm here for you,
if you need any help. Genuinely.
-Listen, he knows
you got it right.
-Does he?
Didn't sound it to me.
[sighs]
Jesus, maybe there
is someone else out there.
Maybe I did get it wrong.
No, no, you didn't get
anything wrong. You know that.
Everyone knows that.
I'm just gonna do what I'm told
and do what's required of me,
and I have absolutely no doubt,
that I will come to exactly
the same conclusion
that you did
seven years ago, okay?
Everything's going
to be fine, babe. [chuckles]
Hm. Look.
These arrived this morning.
I thought maybe we could have
a look over the weekend.
-Okay.
-If you're about?
-Yeah.
-Um...
-That's nice.
-That is nice.
-Only two bedrooms though.
-Yeah, and it's...
A bit far away.
[sobs]
[sighs]
[phone ringing]
Steve, Mari Luz.
Can I see you both
in here, please?
Graham, can I see you as well?
So, these are copies
of the original
Tara Collins case file.
Please take one each, digest,
and then tomorrow first thing,
we start again.
And just... We're probably
not gonna find anything
which puts Collins back inside.
The CPS have never sanctioned
a fourth trial
for the same offence,
but what we might find,
if we give this
our very best efforts,
is evidence which proves,
conclusively this time,
what actually happened
that night.
And I think we owe
Tara's family that,
at the very least. Okay.
Thanks, guys.
Sorry, I expected you earlier.
They're both asleep now.
Took me back, watching
all those news reports.
I can't manage
on what you give us, Tom.
That's what the courts
decided was fair.
Yeah, well, [laughs]
courts can get it wrong
though, can't they?
-What were you thinking?
-Another five a year.
I can't afford to pay you
another 5,000 pounds
a year, Louise.
Really? But you're
a consultant now.
And all that private work?
All those pretty young MILFs
who pay you to peer
between their legs.
How is your new wife,
by the way?
Yeah, it took me back, Tom.
Took me right back.
Yes, I'm sorry to say
that, in certain circumstances,
special guardianship
can be revoked.
But I think the key thing here,
if it went to court,
what the judge would want
to know more
than anything else,
and, actually, what both sets
of parents should want to know
is what do the kids want.
They'll want to stay with us.
Of course they will.
Okay. So you've already spoken
to them about this?
Well, no, not directly.
It's all happened so fast.
But we don't need to.
We just know.
Yeah, they hardly remember
their father.
Jack was eight,
Rosie was five.
He'd be a stranger to them.
All their friends are here,
their family, their school.
Everything's here.
None of this even
takes into account
what they still believe
he did, of course.
Absolutely.
And all of those
are very powerful arguments.
But I'd also imagine
that, in time, they'll come
to accept the fact
that he's been acquitted,
and notwithstanding
all the other points you make,
they are still his kids.
All I'm saying is,
if he does apply
for an access order,
they'll take it
very seriously.
And given that,
my advice to you is to start
a dialogue with him.
-What, with David?
-I know that might seem
impossible right now,
but trust me, going to court is
not only incredibly expensive,
it's traumatic for everyone,
especially the kids.
But if you can talk
and find some compromise,
there might just
be a way forward
that works for everyone.
I will never get over
what that man did to my family.
And I want you to know
that if I was ever
in the same room as him,
I would try and kill him.
[waves crashing]
Um... I'm going to nip down
the shops to get us some grub.
Is there anything
in particular you fancy?
Can I go?
Of course you can.
And you don't have to ask.
No, no, sorry,
force of habit.
Here you go.
And, uh, maybe grab some beers?
-Oh, yeah.
-Oh, and I got you this.
It's, um, an old one of mine,
but should be okay.
I've stuck my number in it
and, uh, your lawyer's.
Right.
I'm going to pay you back,
Phil, for everything.
I swear.
-[door opening]
-[keys jangling]
Eva, I'm so sorry.
Traffic was mental.
Thank you.
I'll see you tomorrow.
[whispering] Sorry, baby.
[machine whirring]
Tim?
Tim, it's me, Dave.
You all right?
You're my daughter's godfather.
You're my friend, Tim.
I'm not your friend.
You have no friends.
Now, fuck off back under
that stone you crawled out from.
I am innocent! All right?
I am innocent!
Now you fucking say it!
-Say it!
-Dave! Dave! No, mate, no!
-No, no, no, no, mate, no!
-I didn't get to go
to my wife's funeral!
[Phil] It's all right.
I saw my wife's grave
four hours ago!
Let's go home.
Let's go home, Dave.
[Alice] We wouldn't let him
take you, Rosie, either of you.
You're safe here
with Mum and Dad, always safe.
[Rosie sniffling]
[pants]
[mouse clicking]
[David panting]
[David] Just to say that,
Tara, if you're watching this,
the kids and me,
we love you so much.
And when we see you--
well, we just want you back.
And if anybody is watching this
and knows where she is...
contact...
We just want her back
with her family, so...
-We love you very much.
-[Beech]  Thank you.
Mr. Collins won't
be answering any questions
at this time.
Thank you very much.
[phone buzzing]
Can't sleep.
[Jack] Come here.
If you feel bad just text me,
all right? I'll come get you.
Hey.
What happened to you last night?
I gave you a call.
Yeah, I--
my phone was on silent,
and then it was late.
-Ahh.
-So.
You know that three-bedroom
in Ripley? Perfect.
-Yeah, that was the one I liked.
-Yeah?
I could get a transfer
to Banham. You could stay here.
-It's only a ten-mile commute
for each of us.
-Yeah.
Great.
So shall I arrange a viewing?
-Meet you around this weekend?
-Yeah, yeah, perfect.
Great. Hey, anything you want me
to go through with you?
No, I'm good. Thanks though.
[door opens, shuts]
[car horn honks]
[doorbell rings]
-So, your sister-in-law offered
to take on the children?
-Yeah.
-With your blessing?
-No, absolutely not, no.
No, 'cause I knew,
at that point, right, that she'd
told the police lies about me.
About you hitting your wife.
Among other things, yeah.
And so you resisted it?
Yeah, I tried to. I wanted
my brother to look after them.
And he agreed to move down
from Bolton after Tara died.
But they put up
a very powerful argument
in court, saying that,
saying that the kids
knew them better
[stammers]
and that they loved them,
and it was the least
disruptive option for everyone.
And this was true?
[sighs] Look...
she'd been a good aunt,
and she didn't have any kids
of her own,
so I'm sure
that she did love them, yeah.
Still does, in fact.
Okay. And am I right
in thinking that you haven't
seen your children
-since the day
you were arrested?
-No.
Because?
I wanted them to visit me,
of course, but they refused.
Did you write to them?
-Yeah, I did, at first, yeah.
-And did they write back?
I got a response
to my first letter from my son.
-All right.
-Which was, understandably,
very angry.
[inhales] Okay, I only ask
because, in terms of the court,
they will think that seven years
is a very long time for a child
not to have any contact
with a parent.
They've lived longer
without you than with.
And you just need to be aware
that they will consider this.
But they are your kids.
And on balance, I still believe
that the courts would say
-you have a right to see them.
-Yes.
But what would
actually be better
is if we could open a dialogue
with the guardians.
If both sides start talking,
we could resolve the issue
without getting the courts
involved at all.
-Speak with Alice?
-Yeah.
[scoffs]
How do you feel about that?
God, if I was in the same room
as that woman...
[sighs]
I don't think
that's gonna be a possibility.
It's very clear to me
that David Collins remains
the most credible suspect.
We know the blood on his coat
was his wife's.
We have the sister's testimony
that there was
a history of violence
from him towards Tara.
We have a witness
who heard a woman scream,
coming from the direction
of their house
at approximately 11 p.m.
And we know that Collins lied
about his friend Tom Wilson
being at their house
until 11:30 that night.
Wilson actually left at 10:30,
which meant Collins would
have had time to drive
to Dedham Lakes and back
before being seen
by their milkman
at just after 5 a.m.
But... if this murder
had happened yesterday,
I would be exploring
other avenues as well.
Steve...
Tom Wilson.
When he was first interviewed,
his account tallied
with Collins'.
He said he was drinking
and playing cards with him
until 11:30.
But then three days later,
he revised his timings.
I want to know
why he changed his mind.
Mari Luz, you and me are going
to look at Collins again.
But also, Alice Moffatt.
Probably not going to be
a popular line of enquiry,
but the fact is
she did pretty well
out of Tara's murder.
Before that she and Rob were
living in a one-bedroom flat
in Malling.
Always wanted kids,
husband was infertile, so, with
Tara dead and David in prison,
she had herself
a ready-made family.
So, I want to go
through everything
that happened that night.
I want to talk to Alice
about the meal she had
with Tara that evening
and speak to the witnesses
from the restaurant.
Lastly, just let's
do ourselves a favour.
None of this is going
to play well out there.
So, until we're obliged,
let's just give
all information out
on a need-to-know basis.
Great.
[cell phone ringing]
-[David] Hello?
-Mr. Collins,
this is DI Cathy Hudson.
Your brother gave me
your number?
I thought it might be useful
if we met.
-[woman] Collins case?
-[Beckton] Yeah.
What on earth could Tom
tell you about the Collins case?
Why? Is he around?
-He's doing a lecture tonight.
-Oh, okay.
No problem,
I'll just give him a call.
Have you got his mobile?
Give me yours,
and I'll get him to call you.
How long have you two
been married now, then?
Two years.
What? And he never mentioned
that he used to be
David Collins' best friend?
I'll get him to call you.
Thanks for your time.
[Alice] I'm not going to have
any discussions with him.
I'm going to do everything
to prevent him
from gaining any access
to the children.
[Rob] Alice.
Will you just listen to me?
[keyboard clacking]
[Rob] What about
what the kids want?
[Alice] We already know
what Rosie wants.
We know what a very confused
12-year-old girl wants.
-No, no, she's terrified
of him, Rob.
-Of course she is,
because of everything she thinks
she knows about him.
What do you mean
she thinks she knows?
-What does that mean?
-Look.
Whether we like it or not,
he has been released,
and he will be going
after some sort of access,
with a very good chance
of getting it,
so however we do it,
we need to help the kids
accept that.
Our children even spending
an hour with that man
-makes me feel sick.
-His children.
No! No.
They are not his kids.
He gave up that right
when he killed their mother.
They're ours, Rob.
-They are yours and mine,
they're Tara's.
-This is not helpful.
-Really, really?
-You have such a fixed view
of everything!
-What do you mean?
-The case, Tara, this--
The last seven years wasn't
just my take on things.
It was the police's,
it was ours, it was everybody's.
Maybe we were wrong.
Look, all I'm saying
is that after three trials,
-he has been released.
-Yeah, on a technicality.
-Maybe, but--
-Maybe? Maybe?
I can't believe
you're even beginning to try
and defend that man.
Rosie?
Rosie!
[David]  My Jack,
thank you for your letter.
I completely understand
your anger,
and if what I have
been accused of were true,
you would have every right
to hate me as much
as you say you do.
Please believe
I am innocent.
All I can think of is the day
that I can see you again.
[waves crashing]
Hello.
Mm-hm. And when exactly
did Agata Wakawski
stop working for you?
And any idea at all
where she is now?
Any of your staff
who might know?
No, I do understand.
You get a lot of churn
with immigrants,
but worth asking, maybe.
Okay, tell you what,
how about I drop by right now
and interview them all myself?
Yes, I'll hold.
So, do you still think
I killed her?
Yeah.
On balance, I do, yes.
But there are some... gaps
in the original investigation,
which I want to look in to.
And I intend to find out
the truth.
If you think that'll be good
for you, you'll help me.
If you don't, you won't.
[clears throat] So, uh,
there are three main areas
that I want you to go away
and have a think about.
Firstly, and most importantly,
[clears throat]
can you think of anyone
who would have maybe wanted
to hurt Tara?
I want you to think
about her behaviour in the month
leading up to her death
and ask yourself,
"Did anything odd happen?"
Maybe something
that's occurred to you since
the original investigation,
which might help us.
The fractured cheek bone
that she suffered
three months
before she died.
Obviously, she said
she'd been mugged. Same thing.
Can you go back over the days
leading up to this incident
and ask yourself,
"Did anything unusual occur?"
Anything at all.
And then, lastly,
the blood on your coat.
If it wasn't
cross-contamination,
any other suggestions
for how it could have got there.
Here's my card.
Call me anytime,
night or day.
[Tom] Well, he told the police
I was with him until 11:30,
and I corroborated that
because I just assumed
he was telling the truth.
And it was only later I realised
that I couldn't have been.
I had an early surgery
the following day.
There's no way I would
have been out that late.
And my wife confirmed that.
Okay. [sniffles]
It was a full three days later
that you decided to come forward
and correct your statement?
-[exhales]
-Why was that?
Because David was a friend.
And because I knew
I would be trashing his alibi.
At that stage,
I didn't seriously think
that he could have done it.
So I held off. And I ended up
as an accessory to murder.
And no one signs up
for that, do they?
-[rain falling]
-[birds chirping]
-There you go, sweetheart.
-Thank you.
[woman]  I'll drive her back
in an hour or so.
Maybe they'll have
resolved it by then.
Did you ever wonder
why she never talked to us?
Tara, I mean,
about David hitting her?
There are things
you don't tell a parent
that you'd tell a sister.
Are there?
She wouldn't have wanted
to worry us.
Well, you were there, Pete,
when he threatened Alice,
when he threatened to kill her
just before he was charged.
We both saw that, didn't we?
[Cathy] I'd like to go over
what you saw that night
in the restaurant, Agata.
[Agata] I said all this,
seven years ago. I went
through everything then.
I just need to clarify
a couple of things.
Do you remember if they ate?
No. They eat nothing.
They drink, [exhales]
all night, very drunk,
particularly her,
the, uh, older one.
-Alice?
-Yeah, Alice.
-And what was their mood?
-Very good spirits,
laugh, laugh, laugh,
till last 20 minutes,
then shit, nasty row,
until they leave.
I have here you said
they were in good spirits,
laughing and joking all night.
Not all night,
till last 20 minutes.
And the other woman working
that night... Sylvie.
She didn't mention anything
about a row.
Sylvie was
in different section.
Plus, she didn't see what I see
when I went out for a smoke.
-What did you see?
-What I told police officer.
By lavatories, big sister
grab little one by throat
and push into the wall.
Nasty.
Why were you not called
as a witness at the trial?
I don't know.
I returned to Poland
for a year
just after I give statement,
but I would have come back
if they ask.
Okay, thank you.
Phil.
Quick word, mate?
-Eric, how's tricks?
-Yeah, all good, mate, all good.
Look, I just wanted
to say that, um...
you're not doing yourself
any favours,
letting him stay at yours.
No one's got a problem
with you,
and we understand that he's...
well, you know, he's family,
but, um,
he'll have to find
somewhere else to live.
[scoffs]
He'll live
where he wants, mate.
-It's a free country
last time I checked.
-He needs to leave, man.
[waves crashing]
-[boy giggling]
-Got you there.
There's nothing you can do.
Nothing you can do!
And that, young man,
is how you incapacitate
your criminal bank robber.
Right, go and clean your teeth.
I'll come read you a story,
all right?
Chop chop.
You know what?
I just remembered.
We did actually try
and get hold of her, but, uh,
she came
from some arse-end village
north of Gdansk,
and we never managed
to track her down.
I mean, obviously,
if her statement had been key,
we might have tried
a little harder, but, uh...
Right.
It's just 'cause...
she now says that she told you
-that she saw Alice assault
her sister that night.
-Assault her?
-Yeah.
-Assault her how?
She said she grabbed her
by the throat and pushed her
against a wall.
[chuckles] Jesus.
No, she never said anything
remotely like that.
Obviously, she didn't,
'cause if she had have done,
it would be
in her witness statement,
wouldn't it?
Yeah, of course,
yeah, it would.
I'm just wondering
why she'd say that to me, then?
I don't know.
Maybe she remembered it wrong.
Or... maybe she's got
some agenda we don't know about?
-You tell me.
-I don't know. I've no idea.
[Beech] Jacob!
Jack, Rosie, supper.
-Where's Jack?
-I thought he was down here.
He's not upstairs.
Is he with Dad?
Rob, have you seen Jack?
-Isn't he back?
-No.
Call his mobile.
Jack?
Oh, my God! Oh, my God!
[Rob] Give us a bell as soon
as you hear this message.
Cheers, mate.
Voicemail.
I just presumed
he'd be in his room.
He hasn't been home
since school.
That's fine.
He'll be at some club
-and just forgotten to tell us.
-It's 7:30, Rob.
Rosie, darling,
do you want to lay the table?
-What if he's taken him, Rob?
-He wouldn't take him.
He knows this house.
He knows where we live.
I'll call the police.
-[thuds]
-[clicks]
[grunts]
Fuck!
Hello, mate.
What the fuck are you doing
in my house?
What do you want?
[woman] Tom?
It's all right, love,
I'm just on the phone.
How did you get in here?
Back door was open.
-I was worried about you, mate.
-I'm calling the police.
No, no, Tom.
No need, I'll go.
I'll go.
I just wanted
to see you, mate.
And I wanted to ask you...
were you just fucking my wife,
or did you kill her too?
[door closes]
Tom?
It's all right,
it's all right, it's fine.
It's fine.